README.md, before:

# geomarkers  <a href='https://geomarker.io.geomarkers/'><img src='geomarker-io_hex_with_url.png' align="right" height="138.5" /></a>

### Demographic Information / Neighborhood Characteristics

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Population, socioeconomic indicators, etc | Census tract or block | Yearly | [US Census American Community Survey (ACS)](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/) | |
| Neighborhood deprivation index (poverty, education, housing, and health care coverage) | Census tract or zip code | 2015, 2018 | [Neighborhood Deprivation Index](https://geomarker.io/dep_index/) | coming soon | 
| Child Opportunity Index (education, health & environment, social & economic neighborhood characteristics) | Census tract | 2010, 2015 | [Child Opportunity Index 2.0](https://www.diversitydatakids.org/child-opportunity-index) | |
| Population, racial composition, socioeconomic indicators, racial and socioeconomic Index of Concentration at the Extremes, crowding | County, zip code, or census tract | 2018 | [The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/thegeocodingproject/covid-19-resources/) |  |
| Racial Index of Concentration at the Extremes (ICE) | Census tract or zip code | Yearly | [Racial ICE](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.16186) | [zctaDB](https://geomarker.io/zctaDB/) R package | 
| Relative crime risk by crime subtype[*](#myfootnote1) | Census block group | Average (2010 - 2017) | [AGS Crime Risk](https://appliedgeographic.com/crimerisk/) | |
| Location and type of gun violence incident | Exact | Annual (2014 - current) | [Gun Violence Archive (GVA)](https://www.gunviolencearchive.org/) | |
| Fraction of food retailers that are "healthy" | Census tract | 2011 | [Modified Retail Food Environment Index (mRFEI)](https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/downloads/census-tract-level-state-maps-mrfei_TAG508.pdf) | | 
| Food access indicators, SNAP benefits, demographics | Census tract | 2015 | [USDA Food Access Research Atlas](https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/food-access-research-atlas/) | |
| Medically Underserved Areas | County / Census tract | Current | [Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)](https://data.hrsa.gov/data/download) | [MUA App](https://erikarasnick.shinyapps.io/mua_app/) | 
| Social Vulnerability Index | County / Census tract | 2000, 2010, 2014, 2016, 2018 | [Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR)](https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/placeandhealth/svi/index.html) ||
| Community Resilience Estimates | County / Census tract | Current | [US Census](https://www.census.gov/data/experimental-data-products/community-resilience-estimates.html) || 
| Social Deprivation Index (Area level deprivation based on ACS data) | County, census tract, ZCTA and PCSA | 2015 | [Robert Graham Center](https://www.graham-center.org/rgc/maps-data-tools/sdi/social-deprivation-index.html) ||
| Neighborhood Atlas | Census block group | 2015, 2019 | [University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health](https://www.neighborhoodatlas.medicine.wisc.edu/) ||

<a name="myfootnote1">*</a> AGS Crime Risk is a propriety product and must be purchased directly from AGS. 

### Air Pollution

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| PM2.5 | 0.74 sq km h3 hexagonal grid | daily (2000 - 2020) | coming soon | coming soon | 
| PM2.5, NO2, O3[**](#myfootnote2)  | 1 sq km grid | daily (2000 - 2016) | Schwartz exposure model | [schwartz](https://degauss.org/degauss_schwartz_guide/) DeGAUSS container | 
| air toxics cancer risk, respiratory hazard index, diesel PM, PM2.5, ozone, traffic proximity and volume, lead paint indicator, proximity to RPM sites, proximity to hazardous waste facilities, proximity to NPL sites, wastewater discharge indicator | Census block groups | Annual (2015 - 2020) | [EPA EJ Screen](https://www.epa.gov/ejscreen/overview-environmental-indicators-ejscreen) | [zctaDB](https://geomarker.io/zctaDB/) R package | 
| Fixed site monitoring of ambient pollutant levels, air quality alerts |	Interpreted from over 2500 stations (nationwide) | Daily | [EPA Air Quality System (AQS)](https://aqs.epa.gov/aqsweb/airdata/download_files.html) | |
| Location and amount of emissions | Exact location |	Yearly (2008, 2011, 2014, 2017) | [National Emissions Inventory (NEI)](https://www.epa.gov/air-emissions-inventories/national-emissions-inventory-nei) | | 
| PM2.5, PM10, O3, CO, SO2, NO2 | Census block group (Contiguous US) | Annual (1999 - 2015) | [CACES LUR](https://www.caces.us/data) | |
| PM2.5, SO4, NO3, NH4, OM, BC, DUST, SS | 0.01° × 0.01° (North America) | Annual (2000 - 2018) | [ACAG MAPLE](http://fizz.phys.dal.ca/~atmos/martin/?page_id=140) | |
| PM2.5, GBD-MAPS, NO2, Inverse Visibility, OM/OC, Surface Area, NOy Deposition, Dry Deposition, AMF Code | 0.01° × 0.01° (North America) | Annual / Monthly | [ACAG Washington University in St. Louis](https://sites.wustl.edu/acag/datasets/)
| PM2.5, NO2 | Tract Centers (Contiguous US) | Monthly (1999 – 2008) | Beckerman | |

<a name="myfootnote2">**</a> Schwartz model estimates are hosted privately, but are available upon request through DockerHub authentication.

### Environmental Exposures

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Air temperature, planetary boundary height, relative humidity, precipitation, wind |	North America (0.3°×0.3°) |	8-times a day (2001 – current); daily means (1979 – current) |	[North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR)](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/north-american-regional-reanalysis-narr) | [addNarrData](https://geomarker.io/addNarrData/) R package;  [narr](https://degauss.org/narr/) DeGAUSS container |
| Temperature, relative humidity, precipitation, wind speed and direction	| Interpreted from > 5000 stations (nationwide) | Daily |	[Daily	Global Historical Climatology Network (GHCN)](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/land-based-station-data/land-based-datasets/global-historical-climatology-network-ghcn) | |
| Greenspace as Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) | 250 × 250 m grid (contiguous US) | June 10 and June 25, 2018 composite | [Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)](https://search.earthdata.nasa.gov/search) | [greenspace](https://degauss.org/greenspace/) DeGAUSS container |
| Land cover classifications (21 classes) |	30 x 30 m grid |	Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016) |	[National Land Cover Database (NLCD)](https://www.mrlc.gov/) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Fractional imperviousness	| 30 x 30 m grid |	Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016) |	[NLCD Imperviousness](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-2016-percent-developed-imperviousness-conus) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Roadway type, development intensity |	30 x 30 m grid |	Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016) |	[NLCD Imperviousness Classification](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-2016-developed-imperviousness-descriptor-conus) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Vegetation Type |	30 x 30 m grid | Annual (2011, 2016) |	[NLCD Tree Canopy](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-2016-usfs-tree-canopy-cover-conus) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Greenspace as fraction of land classified as green | 30 x 30 m grid	| Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016)	| [NLCD Greenness](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-land-cover-conus-all-years) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Location efficiency, characteristics of the built environment |	Census tract | 2010 |	[Smart Location Database (SLD)](https://www.epa.gov/smartgrowth/smart-location-mapping) | |
| Highway traffic intensity	| Exact location (nationwide) |	Yearly |	US Department of Transportation (DOT) | | 
| Quantity of types of animals, products, crops |	Zip Code | 1997, 2002, 2007, 2008, 2011 - 2016 | [USDA National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS)](https://www.nass.usda.gov/) | |
| Highway traffic intensity	| Exact location (nationwide) |	Yearly |	[US Department of Transportation (DOT)](https://www.transportation.gov/) | | 
| Noise level |	270 m sq grids (nationwide) |	2015 |	[National Park Service Geospatial Sound Modeling (GSM)](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/sound/soundmap.htm) | |

### Greater Cincinnati Area Only

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Crime density, combined sewer overflow sites, housing infractions, urban tree cover, etc |	Exact location (Greater Cincinnati Area) | Current | [Cincinnati Area Geographic Information Systems (CAGIS)](http://cagis.org/Opendata/?) | [hamilton](https://github.com/geomarker-io/hamilton) R package for parcel-based geocoding |
| PM2.5 |	Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	Daily (2000 – 2015)	 | [Air pollution exposure model](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.7b05381) |	[aiR](https://geomarker.io/aiR/) R package |
| Traffic Related Air Pollution	| Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	Monthly (2001 – current) |	[Air pollution exposure model](https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.9480) |	[ecat](https://geomarker.io/ecat/) R package |
| PM2.5 components: Al, Cu, Fe, K, Mn, Pb, S, Si, V, Zn | Exact location |	Average daily exposure (2002-2006) |	[Air pollution exposure model](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2016.11.066) |   |
| Lead Air Pollution |	Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	Monthly (2001 – current) |	[Air pollution exposure model](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2016.11.066) |	[airPb](https://geomarker.io/airPb) R package	|
| Estimated travel time by car |	Census tract and traffic analysis area |	Hourly (2016-2017) |	[Uber Move](https://movement.uber.com/explore/cincinnati/travel-times/query?si=156&ti=&ag=censustracts&dt[tpb]=ALL_DAY&dt[wd;]=1,2,3,4,5,6,7&dt[dr][sd]=2019-12-01&dt[dr][ed]=2019-12-31&cd=&sa;=&sdn=&lang=en-US	)	| |
| Combined Sewer Overflow events |	Exact location |	Daily (2012 - 2016) |	Metropolitan Sewer District (MSD) | |
| Home images, value, age, other physical characteristics, owner name | Exact |	Exact	Inspection dates |	Hamilton County Auditor	| |	
| Land cover in 6 categories: impervious, tree canopy, agriculture, bare soil, grass/meadow, water |	1 x 1 m (Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky) |	2010 |	Urban Tree Canopy (UTC) Assessments | |		
| Satellite measured near-infrared and visible radiation |	30 x 30 m (seven county region) |	2000 & 2010	| Normalized Differential Vegetation (NDVI) cover	| |		
| Vacant properties, managed and vouchered properties, management companies |	Exact location (Greater Cincinnati Area) |	Current	 | Cincinnati Metro Housing Authority (CMHA) |  |
| Areas without access to medication-assisted treatment and/or behavioral therapy for opioid addiction |	Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	2019 |	MAT Desert | [MAT Desert shapfiles](https://zenodo.org/record/4011051) |			
| Crime |	Exact location (Ohio) |	Annual (2013 - 2018)|	[Ohio Incident Based Reporting System](https://www.ocjs.ohio.gov/crime_stats_reports.stm#gsc.tab=0) | |

Commit message:

minor updates (#8); closes #7
readme updates

Co-authored-by: Cole Brokamp <cole-brokamp@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# geomarkers  <a href='https://geomarker.io.geomarkers/'><img src='geomarker-io_hex_with_url.png' align="right" height="138.5" /></a>

### Demographic Information / Neighborhood Characteristics

The [census Block Group](https://github.com/degauss-org/census_block_group) DeGAUSS container can be used to obtain census geography identifiers in order to merge in any of the data below or other extant data indexed by census geography identifiers.

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available Software Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Population, socioeconomic indicators, etc | Census tract or block | Yearly | [US Census American Community Survey (ACS)](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/) | |
| Neighborhood Deprivation Index (poverty, education, housing, and health care coverage) | Census tract or zip code | 2015, 2018 | [Material Deprivation Index](https://geomarker.io/dep_index/) | [dep index](https://github.com/geomarker-io/dep_index/tree/master/2018_dep_index#import-2018-index-directly-into-r) R code; [dep index](https://github.com/degauss-org/dep_index) DeGAUSS Container | 
| Child Opportunity Index (education, health & environment, social & economic neighborhood characteristics) | Census tract | 2010, 2015 | [Child Opportunity Index 2.0](https://www.diversitydatakids.org/child-opportunity-index) | |
| Population, racial composition, socioeconomic indicators, racial and socioeconomic Index of Concentration at the Extremes, crowding | County, zip code, or census tract | 2018 | [The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/thegeocodingproject/covid-19-resources/) |  |
| Racial Index of Concentration at the Extremes (ICE) | Census tract or zip code | Yearly | [Racial ICE](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.16186) | [zctaDB](https://geomarker.io/zctaDB/) R package | 
| Relative crime risk by crime subtype[*](#myfootnote1) | Census block group | Average (2010 - 2017) | [AGS Crime Risk](https://appliedgeographic.com/crimerisk/) | |
| Location and type of gun violence incident | Exact | Annual (2014 - current) | [Gun Violence Archive (GVA)](https://www.gunviolencearchive.org/) | |
| Fraction of food retailers that are "healthy" | Census tract | 2011 | [Modified Retail Food Environment Index (mRFEI)](https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/downloads/census-tract-level-state-maps-mrfei_TAG508.pdf) | | 
| Food access indicators, SNAP benefits, demographics | Census tract | 2015 | [USDA Food Access Research Atlas](https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/food-access-research-atlas/) | |
| Medically Underserved Areas | County / Census tract | Current | [Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)](https://data.hrsa.gov/data/download) | [MUA App](https://erikarasnick.shinyapps.io/mua_app/) | 
| Social Vulnerability Index | County / Census tract | 2000, 2010, 2014, 2016, 2018 | [Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR)](https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/placeandhealth/svi/index.html) ||
| Community Resilience Estimates | County / Census tract | Current | [US Census](https://www.census.gov/data/experimental-data-products/community-resilience-estimates.html) || 
| Social Deprivation Index (Area level deprivation based on ACS data) | County, census tract, ZCTA and PCSA | 2015 | [Robert Graham Center](https://www.graham-center.org/rgc/maps-data-tools/sdi/social-deprivation-index.html) ||
| Neighborhood Atlas | Census block group | 2015, 2019 | [University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health](https://www.neighborhoodatlas.medicine.wisc.edu/) ||

<a name="myfootnote1">*</a> AGS Crime Risk is a propriety product and must be purchased directly from AGS. 

### Air Pollution

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| PM2.5 | 0.74 sq km h3 hexagonal grid | daily (2000 - 2020) | [Brokamp exposure model](https://github.com/geomarker-io/st_pm_hex) | [addPmData](https://geomarker.io/addPmData/) R package; [pm](https://github.com/degauss-org/pm) DeGAUSS container | 
| PM2.5, NO2, O3[**](#myfootnote2)  | 1 sq km grid | daily (2000 - 2016) | Schwartz exposure model | [schwartz](https://degauss.org/degauss_schwartz_guide/) DeGAUSS container | 
| air toxics cancer risk, respiratory hazard index, diesel PM, PM2.5, ozone, traffic proximity and volume, lead paint indicator, proximity to RPM sites, proximity to hazardous waste facilities, proximity to NPL sites, wastewater discharge indicator | Census block groups | Annual (2015 - 2020) | [EPA EJ Screen](https://www.epa.gov/ejscreen/overview-environmental-indicators-ejscreen) | [zctaDB](https://geomarker.io/zctaDB/) R package | 
| Fixed site monitoring of ambient pollutant levels, air quality alerts |	Interpreted from over 2500 stations (nationwide) | Daily | [EPA Air Quality System (AQS)](https://aqs.epa.gov/aqsweb/airdata/download_files.html) | |
| Location and amount of emissions | Exact location |	Yearly (2008, 2011, 2014, 2017) | [National Emissions Inventory (NEI)](https://www.epa.gov/air-emissions-inventories/national-emissions-inventory-nei) | | 
| PM2.5, PM10, O3, CO, SO2, NO2 | Census block group (Contiguous US) | Annual (1999 - 2015) | [CACES LUR](https://www.caces.us/data) | |
| PM2.5, SO4, NO3, NH4, OM, BC, DUST, SS | 0.01° × 0.01° (North America) | Annual (2000 - 2018) | [ACAG MAPLE](http://fizz.phys.dal.ca/~atmos/martin/?page_id=140) | |
| PM2.5, GBD-MAPS, NO2, Inverse Visibility, OM/OC, Surface Area, NOy Deposition, Dry Deposition, AMF Code | 0.01° × 0.01° (North America) | Annual / Monthly | [ACAG Washington University in St. Louis](https://sites.wustl.edu/acag/datasets/)
| PM2.5, NO2 | Tract Centers (Contiguous US) | Monthly (1999 – 2008) | Beckerman | |

<a name="myfootnote2">**</a> Schwartz model estimates are hosted privately, but are available upon request through DockerHub authentication.

### Environmental Exposures

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Air temperature, planetary boundary height, relative humidity, precipitation, wind |	North America (0.3°×0.3°) |	8-times a day (2001 – current); daily means (1979 – current) |	[North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR)](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/north-american-regional-reanalysis-narr) | [addNarrData](https://geomarker.io/addNarrData/) R package;  [narr](https://degauss.org/narr/) DeGAUSS container |
| Temperature, relative humidity, precipitation, wind speed and direction	| Interpreted from > 5000 stations (nationwide) | Daily |	[Daily	Global Historical Climatology Network (GHCN)](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/land-based-station-data/land-based-datasets/global-historical-climatology-network-ghcn) | |
| Greenspace as Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) | 250 × 250 m grid (contiguous US) | June 10 and June 25, 2018 composite | [Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)](https://search.earthdata.nasa.gov/search) | [greenspace](https://degauss.org/greenspace/) DeGAUSS container |
| Land cover classifications (21 classes) |	30 x 30 m grid |	Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016) |	[National Land Cover Database (NLCD)](https://www.mrlc.gov/) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Fractional imperviousness	| 30 x 30 m grid |	Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016) |	[NLCD Imperviousness](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-2016-percent-developed-imperviousness-conus) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Roadway type, development intensity |	30 x 30 m grid |	Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016) |	[NLCD Imperviousness Classification](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-2016-developed-imperviousness-descriptor-conus) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Vegetation Type |	30 x 30 m grid | Annual (2011, 2016) |	[NLCD Tree Canopy](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-2016-usfs-tree-canopy-cover-conus) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Greenspace as fraction of land classified as green | 30 x 30 m grid	| Annual (2001, 2006, 2011, 2016)	| [NLCD Greenness](https://www.mrlc.gov/data/nlcd-land-cover-conus-all-years) | [addNlcdData](https://geomarker.io/addNlcdData/) R package;  [nlcd](https://degauss.org/nlcd/) DeGAUSS container |
| Location efficiency, characteristics of the built environment |	Census tract | 2010 |	[Smart Location Database (SLD)](https://www.epa.gov/smartgrowth/smart-location-mapping) | |
| Highway traffic intensity	| Exact location (nationwide) |	Yearly |	US Department of Transportation (DOT) | | 
| Quantity of types of animals, products, crops |	Zip Code | 1997, 2002, 2007, 2008, 2011 - 2016 | [USDA National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS)](https://www.nass.usda.gov/) | |
| Highway traffic intensity	| Exact location (nationwide) |	Yearly |	[US Department of Transportation (DOT)](https://www.transportation.gov/) | | 
| Noise level |	270 m sq grids (nationwide) |	2015 |	[National Park Service Geospatial Sound Modeling (GSM)](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/sound/soundmap.htm) | |

### Greater Cincinnati Area Only

| **Geomarkers** | **Space** | **Time** | **Source** | **Available DeGAUSS Products** |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Crime density, combined sewer overflow sites, housing infractions, urban tree cover, etc |	Exact location (Greater Cincinnati Area) | Current | [Cincinnati Area Geographic Information Systems (CAGIS)](http://cagis.org/Opendata/?) | [hamilton](https://github.com/geomarker-io/hamilton) R package for parcel-based geocoding |
| PM2.5 |	Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	Daily (2000 – 2015)	 | [Air pollution exposure model](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.7b05381) |	[aiR](https://geomarker.io/aiR/) R package |
| Traffic Related Air Pollution	| Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	Monthly (2001 – current) |	[Air pollution exposure model](https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.9480) |	[ecat](https://geomarker.io/ecat/) R package |
| PM2.5 components: Al, Cu, Fe, K, Mn, Pb, S, Si, V, Zn | Exact location |	Average daily exposure (2002-2006) |	[Air pollution exposure model](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2016.11.066) |   |
| Lead Air Pollution |	Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	Monthly (2001 – current) |	[Air pollution exposure model](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2016.11.066) |	[airPb](https://geomarker.io/airPb) R package	|
| Estimated travel time by car |	Census tract and traffic analysis area |	Hourly (2016-2017) |	[Uber Move](https://movement.uber.com/explore/cincinnati/travel-times/query?si=156&ti=&ag=censustracts&dt[tpb]=ALL_DAY&dt[wd;]=1,2,3,4,5,6,7&dt[dr][sd]=2019-12-01&dt[dr][ed]=2019-12-31&cd=&sa;=&sdn=&lang=en-US	)	| |
| Combined Sewer Overflow events |	Exact location |	Daily (2012 - 2016) |	Metropolitan Sewer District (MSD) | |
| Home images, value, age, other physical characteristics, owner name | Exact |	Exact	Inspection dates |	Hamilton County Auditor	| |	
| Land cover in 6 categories: impervious, tree canopy, agriculture, bare soil, grass/meadow, water |	1 x 1 m (Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky) |	2010 |	Urban Tree Canopy (UTC) Assessments | |		
| Satellite measured near-infrared and visible radiation |	30 x 30 m (seven county region) |	2000 & 2010	| Normalized Differential Vegetation (NDVI) cover	| |		
| Vacant properties, managed and vouchered properties, management companies |	Exact location (Greater Cincinnati Area) |	Current	 | Cincinnati Metro Housing Authority (CMHA) |  |
| Areas without access to medication-assisted treatment and/or behavioral therapy for opioid addiction |	Exact location (seven county area served by CCHMC) |	2019 |	MAT Desert | [MAT Desert shapfiles](https://zenodo.org/record/4011051) |			
| Crime |	Exact location (Ohio) |	Annual (2013 - 2018)|	[Ohio Incident Based Reporting System](https://www.ocjs.ohio.gov/crime_stats_reports.stm#gsc.tab=0) | |
